<!--chandrakala bihar -->
Ingredients

1 cup Maida,tablespoon Ghee,
¼ teaspoon Salt,milk,sugar,
¾ cup Khoya,
3 tablespoon Chopped nuts,Powdered sugar
Saffron,
 <!-- process -->
1-First lets prepare dough by mixing maida, salt and ghee.
2-Keep aside for 30 mins min.
3-Soak the saffron prior in lukewarm milk. Then mix crumbled khoya, sugar powder. Knead well to mix thoroughly. 
4-Prepare sugar syrup by boiling in medium flame.
5-Take dough and roll gently to thick puris. Arrange in a broad plate.

6-stuff 2 teaspoon of the khoya in a side of the puri we rolled.

7-Press the sides to seal and fold as we did for chandrakala. Repeat to finish.

8- Fry few per batch. After dropping in oil, cook in medium flame.
9-Drain from oil and let it soak for 5- 10 mins. 
<!--kesar peda  -->

300 grams Khoya ,
4 tablespoons Sugar,
1 teaspoon Saffron strands, milk,pistachios,sliced,
1/4 teaspoon Elaichi,

<!-- process -->
1- Warm the milk without boiling it and soak the saffron in it. Keep this aside for 10 minutes.

2-In a pan , add crumbled khoya and sugar. Cook this on a low heat for 4-5 minutes 
3-Once the mixture is cool enough to touch, knead it lightly to get rid of any lumps so you have a smooth mixture. 
4-Roll the kesar peda mixture into a log and cut 12 equal pieces.

5-Make a small dent in the center and add the pista slices. 
6-Peda is ready to be served.

<!-- khaja -->

Ingredients
Ingredients For Layered Fritters
4 cups Maida ,
2-tablespoon ghee,elaichi,black pepper,powder,
Oil ,
2 cups Sugar,

<!-- process -->
1- In a bowl, add the flour, melted ghee and mix well. 
2-Add cold water to make a smooth yet firm dough. 
3-Cover the dough and keep aside for at least 15 to 20 minutes.
4-Divide the dough into eight equal parts. 
5-Take a ball and roll into rectangular shape sheet.
6-Smear the prepared flour paste on one sheet and place another on top of it.
7- Spread the flour paste on top of the second sheet and roll both the sheets together tightly to resemble a log.
8-Cut this flour log into equal sized pieces of 1 inch each. Roll each piece vertically.
9-Heat oil in Deep fry pan, fry them in batches, 
10-In the meantime, prepare sugar syrup adding 2 cups sugar in 1 cup water in a Saucepan.
11-Bring to a boil and cook till it becomes sticky.
12-Add cardamom powder, black pepper and cinnamon powders to it. This addition of spices is purely optional. Switch off flame.


13-Dip the fried khaja into the syrup hence prepared, when the syrup is still warm. 


<!-- chines -->

<!-- fry rice -->
Ingredients
2 tbsp Oil, vinegar1 tbsp Ginger,,garlic,chilli,4 onion,carrot,cabbage chopped finely,
1 tbsp Soy Sauce,1 cup Basmati Rice

<!-- process -->
1-Cook basmati rice and drain it.
2-Heat oil in wok on high heat.
3-Add in ginger, garlic, spring onions, green chillies and toss well.
4-Add in veggies, and cook for 5 mins on high heat till tender.
5-Add in salt, sugar,pepper,soy sauce and vinegar and mix well.
6-Add in cooked rice and toss well.
7-Now add some extra pepper powder, spring onion greens and mix well.

<!-- momos -->
Ingredients
1 cabbage chopped,
1/2 Onion , 
1 inch Ginger , 2 Green Chillies ,
1 ts Black pepper powder
Salt ,
1 cup Maida

<!-- process -->
1-In a mixing bowl, take maida, add water slowly and knead to form a medium stiff dough. The dough should not be very sticky.
2-Keep the momo dough covered for 2 hours before making Chilli Cheese Mushroom stuffing.
3-heat pan with oil add ginger,garlic,onion and fry
4-Add in cabbage, green chillies, turn the heat to high saute till the cabbage are cooked and the water is evaporated.
5-Add in black pepper powder, spring onions and salt and give it a toss.
6-Take a bamboo dimsum steamer, or the regular idli steamer and fill it with water and heat it over a medium heat.

7-Divide the dough into equal portions, to the size of a lemon.
8- add 1 tablespoon  filling and fold the edges to semicircles and start pleating to give a nice characteristic pleats.
9-If using traditional steamer it has own boiler 
10- Steam the Chilli Cheese Mushroom Momo for 10 - 15 minutes until you get a shine on the momo.



<!-- noddles -->
INGREDIENTS
6 cup water,
1 tsp salt,oil,
125 grams noodles
2 clove garlic, ginger chopped,
1 chilli,
½ onion, sliced,
▢½ carrot, chopped,capsicum,
▢3 tbsp cabbage,
▢2 tbsp tomato sauce,
▢1 tbsp soy sauce ,vinegar,chilli

 <!-- process -->
1-Firstly, in a large vessel take 6 cup water, 1 tsp salt and 1 tsp oil.
2-Once the water comes to a boil place a pack of hakka noodles (125 gm)
3-Boil the noodles for 3 minutes or till it turns al dente.
4-Now in a large kadai heat 2 tbsp oil ,clove garlic,ginger,onion , chilli
5- Add  carrot, capsicum,cabbage
6-Stir fry on high flame for 2 minutes 
7- Add tomato sauce,soy sauce,vinegar, chilli sauce, salt.
8-Stir fry until sauces are well combined.
9-Add in boiled noodles and mix gently.

<!-- spring roll -->
10 Spring Roll Sheets,
2 tbsp 1 Onion sliced thinly,
2 cups Cabbage sliced thinly,
1 large grated Carrot,salt,
1 tbsp  Soya Sauce,corn flor,sugar
1 inch piece Ginger,
6 cloves Garlic,
3 Green Chilli,
3 Maida,3 tbsp Water
<!-- process -->
Instructions

1-Grind the ingredients given the list to a smooth paste. Set aside till use.
2-Heat oil in a kadai. Add in the ground up paste. Saute for a min.
3-Add in onions, cabbage and carrots. Give a quick toss.
4-Now sprinkle in salt and sugar. Saute well. Cover and cook the veggies till tender.
5-Now mix up soya sauce with some corn flour. Pour this over the veggies and mix well.
6-Transfer this mixture to a plate and allow it to cool down.
7-Now mix up flour and water in a small bowl to a paste. This is your glue.
8-Take your spring roll sheet in a plate, spoon some filling in the center.
9-Apply the paste all the side. Fold from both the ends and roll it into a tight spring roll.
10-Do this for every spring roll.
11-Heat oil for deep frying. Fry this spring roll in hot oil till golden.
<!-- gujrat -->
<!-- dhokla -->

1/4 cup Green Chutney,
1 cup Sooji,
1/4 cup Curd,
1 tbs Oil,
Salt , 
1 tbs Enos Fruit Salt,
 Dhania,
1/2 tbs Mustard seeds,jera,hing,til,curry leaves,
<!-- process -->
1-In a  bowl, combine the sooji, green chutney, curd, cooking oil and salt to taste.
2-Mix vigorously and allow it to sit for a good 30 minutes.
3- After the 30 minutes add a little water if required to make a thick dhokla batter.
4-Preheat the steamer with water and keep it ready.
5-Grease a dhokla plate generously with oil.
6- Add eno's fruit salt and give it a good mix
7-Pour the Green Chutney Rava Dhokla batter into the grease dhokla plate.
8-Now  cover and steam the Green Chutney Rava Dhokla for 10-12 minutes until firm. 
9- If the greased knife comes out clean the dhokla is steamed. 
10-De-mould and transfer to a serving plate. 
11-To make the tadka for the Green Chutney Rava Dhokla Recipe
12-In a tadka pan, heat oil on medium high flame, add the mustard seeds and curry leaves. 
13-Once the curry leaves crackle, turn off the flame.
14- Pour this tadka over the Green Chutney Rava Dhokla along with coriander leaves and serve. 
<!-- fafda -->
2 cups besan,
¼ tsp turmeric, kashmiri red chilli powder,ajwain,baking soda,
salt to taste,
oil,
water to knead dough,
oil for deep frying

<!-- process -->
INSTRUCTIONS
 
1-Firstly, in a large mixing bowl add in 2 cups besan,turmeric
2-Add chilli powder,ajwain, baking soda salt to taste. 2 tbsp oil and mix well.
3-Further add warm water as required and knead.
4-Knead for 5 minutes or till the dough turns soft and smooth.
5-Add a tsp oil and coat the dough well.
6-Cover with moist cloth and rest for 30 minutes.
7-Knead again for a minute making sure the dough is soft.
8-Pinch a ball sized dough and make a cylindrical shape.
9-On a wooden board place the dough and stick one side.
10-Press and stretch it thin with the help of palms in forward direction.
11-Scrape off with the help of knife without damaging the fafda.
12-Now deep fry in hot oil. do not over crowd the fafdas as they wont cook well.
13-Fry fafdas for a minute or two, till they turn golden and crispy.

<!-- undhiyu -->
1 cup besan,
1½ cups chopped Fenugreek Leaves,
1/2 teaspoon Red Chilli Powder,sesam seeds,Green Chilli ,Ginger, Garlic Paste
1/4 teaspoon Turmeric Powder, grated Coconut,dhaniya,
A pinch of Baking Soda,
1½ teaspoons Sugar,
1/4 teaspoon Lemon Juice,
Salt to taste,
1 tablespoon Oil + for deep frying,
1/3 cup Roasted Peanut Powder,
1 teaspoon Sugar,
3-4 small Brinjal,
6-7  Potato,
1/2 cup Surti Papdi, strings removed,
1/2 cup Valor Papdi, strings removed,
1/2 cup Green Peas,
1 teaspoon Red Chilli Powder,
1/3 teaspoon Turmeric Powder
1/2 cup Cooking Oil (or less*)
1 cup Water

<!-- process -->
1-Take besan, red chilli powder,turmeric powder, baking soda,sugar,lemon juice, oil and salt in a medium bowl.
2-Mix all ingredients with a spoon, add water as needed and make soft dough 
3-Grease your hands with oil and carefully make  small oval shaped muthiyas from it.
4-Deep fry muthiyas
5-Take all masala ingredients  in a medium bowl.
6-Mix them well using a spoon and taste it.
7-Take all vegetables required to make the undhiyu.
8-Peel the potatoes and remove stems from brinjal. 
9-Make a criss-cross cut on brinjal and potato from the topside until 3/4th length. 
10-Make sure not to separate the segments. Stuff the veggies with prepared masala
11-Heat 1/2 cup oil in a 3-liter cooker over medium flame.
12- Add surti papadi, valor papdi, tuvar lilva, green peas, salt. 
13-Mix well and cook for 2-3 minutes.
14-Add red chilli powder,turmeric powder, garam masala powder.
15-Mix well and cook for 3 minutes.
16-Add stuffed brinjal and potato. Sprinkle some salt over it.
17-Add 1½ cups water. Add fried dhokli methi muthiya over it.
18-Close the lid and cook over medium flame for 3 whistles.


<!-- maharashtra -->
<!--  sol khadi-->
 kokam ,
 water,
 oil,
 jeera,
kadi patta,cloves garlic,
green chilli,
salt to taste,
few coriander leaves, finely chopped

<!-- process -->
INSTRUCTIONS
 
1-In a large kadai heat oil and add cumin seeds.
2- Add curry leaves, garlic and green chilli. saute well.
3- Add squeezed kokam juice discarding the pulp  add salt..
4-Add coconut milk. make sure to keep flame on low-medium else coconut milk might curdle.
5-Then add chopped coriander leaves,crushed pepper.

<!--  vada-->
2 Tbsp Vegetable Oil,1/2 tsp Mustard Powder,Lime juice,1 tsp Coriander Powder,1 cup Chickpeas flour,1  tsp Garlic powder,4-5 Curry Leaves,2-3 small Potatoes,1/2 tsp Mustard Seeds,1 tsp Finely Chopped garlic1 tsp Red chilli powder1/2 tsp Chopped green chillies1/2 tsp TurmericA pinch of Baking Soda2 tbsp Chopped onion1 tbsp Tamarind chutney1/2 cup Chopped coriander leaves2 Buns
<!-- process -->
1.Take a container add boiled potatoes and mash them properly.
2.Heat oil in a pan and add curry leaves, mustard seeds, garlic, salt and green chillies.
3.Then add mashed potatoes and mustard powder, red chilli powder, coriander powder, lime juice, chickpea flour and sugar. 
4-In a bowl, add chickpea flour, turmeric powder, baking soda, and salt. Mix everything well. Once done, add water. 
5-Heat oil in a kadhai, take the potato mixture, dip it in the batter of chickpea flour.
6- Next, fry the vadas until golden brown and then transfer them to a plate.
7-The last step is, slice the vada pav bun and add tamarind chutney and garlic powder.
8- Then place the green chilli vada and sprinkle grated cheese on it. 
9-Your Cheese Chili Vada Pav is ready to be served.

<!-- modak -->
1 cup coconut, grated1 cup jaggeryA pinch of nutmegA pinch of saffronFor the shell:1 cup water2 tsp ghee1 cup rice flour
<!-- process -->
1.Heat a pan, add the grated coconut and jaggery.
2.Stir for about five minutes. Add the nutmeg and saffron, mix well.
3.Cook for another five minutes and keep aside.
4.In a deep dish, boil water with ghee. Add the salt and flour. 
5.Cover the dish and cook till its half done.
6.Spread some ghee on the base of a steel bowl and while the dough is still hot, knead it well.7.Take a little dough, roll it into a ball,flatten it well.
8.Put a spoonful of the filling onto the dough and seal it.
9.Put the dumplings in a muslin cloth and steam them for 10- 15 minutes. 
10.Serve.
<!-- south -->
<!-- appam -->
Raw Rice ,
Urad dal,
Sugar ,
Cooked Rice
<!-- process -->
1.Take raw rice, urad dal in a bowl and wash well. Soak in water for 4 hours.
2.Strain the rice and urad dal and take it in a blender.
3.Add in cooked rice and blend till smooth. Once the batter is ground. Take it in a bowl.
4.Now take the blender jar, add 1 cup of water to it. 
5.Swirl and clean the blender really well. 
6.Take the mix in the sauce pan. Cook on high heat and keep mixing till it thickens well.
7.Set aside to cool completely.
8.Add it in to the batter. Add salt and mix well.
9.Cover and leave to ferment for 24 hours. 
10.Once the batter is fermented. It will look foamy and bubbly.
11.Heat appam pan, pour a ladleful of batter and swirl. 
12.Cover and cook till the bottom is crispy. Remove and serve.

<!-- dosa -->
1 cup idli rice,ginger,,salt,onion,
¾ cup toor dal,chana dal,moong,urad,
¼ tsp methi,hing,turmeric,
10 dried red chilli,
water, for soaking,
2 tbsp coriander, finely chopped
ghee, for roasting

<!-- process -->
1.In bowl take idli rice,toor dal, chana dal, moong dal and  urad dal.
2.Also add  methi and  dried red chilli.
3.Rinse the dal well and soak in water for 4 hours.
4.Drain off the water and transfer to the mixer jar. also 
5.Add  hing, turmeric,  ginger and  salt.
6.Grind to coarse paste adding water as required.
7.Transfer the batter to the large bowl and mix well.
8.Rest the batter for 2 hours before making dosa.
9.Take the required amount of batter, add 1 onion, 2 tbsp coriander and mix well.
10.Heat the dosa pan and pour the dosa batter.
11.Spread gently making the dosa slightly thick.
12.Now top with roast on medium flame until the dosa turns golden brown from the bottom.
13.Flip over and cook until the dosa is cooked well.
14.Finally, enjoy adai dosa recipe with coconut chutney.

<!-- idli -->
1 bowl Idli batterSalt, as per taste2 tsp ghee1 spring curry leaves, chopped1/2 tsp hing1/2 tsp dry ginger powder1 tsp cumin seeds1 black peppercorn2-3 Green Chillies, chopped1 tsp soaked chana dal
<!-- process -->
1.Heat ghee in a kadhai and prepare a tadka with all the spices and herbs.
2.Once done, add to the idli batter.
3.Add some salt and give a final mix.
4.Allow the batter to ferment overnight.
5.Allow the batter to ferment overnight.
6.Prepare idli in idli steamer and serve.
<!-- vade -->
1 cups of urad dal or uddina bele,
¼ cup of channa dal or kadle bele,
2 tsp of rice flour,
2 green chillies,
3 tbsp of dry chopped coconut,
few curry leaves,
1 tbsp coriander leaves, chopped,
1 inch ginger, finely chopped,
pinch of hing,
salt to taste,
oil to fry

 <!-- process -->
1.wash and soak dal in about 3 cups of water for about 2-3 hours.
2.grind urad dal and channa dal together to smooth paste using very little water.
3.the batter should be thick and use very little water.
4.add coriander, green chilli, ginger and chopped dry coconut to the batter.
5.add 2-3 tsp of rice flour. rice flour is added to make it crispy.
6.add pinch of hing to make it more digestible.
7.heat the oil in a frying pan in medium flame.
8.make hole in the center and slide it into the hot oil.
9.the vada should float on top of oil.
10.make sure your oil is not too hot.
11.fry on both sides till it becomes golden brown in colour.
12.serve medu vada immediately with chutney collections or sambar collections.

<!-- juice -->

<!-- mango juice -->

- 2 large Peeled & Chopped
Sugar - 4 tblspn to taste
Ice Water as needed
<!-- process -->
1.Take mangoes, sugar and little water in a blender and make into a fine puree.
2.If the mangoes are fibrous strain the mixture.
3.Add ice water to this and serve cold.

<!-- apple -->
INGREDIENTS FOR APPLE JUICE
For Apple Sauce:

Apples - 4 medium size crunchy sweet apples,
Sugar - ½ cup to ¾ cup,
Lemon Juice - 2 tbsp,
Water - ½ cup,
Apple Sauce as needed,
Icecubes as needed,
Cold Water as needed
<!-- process -->
1.Wash apples well. Peel them, deseed them, chop them.Take them in a microwave safe bowl.
2.Now add sugar and water in it. Cover with the lid.
3.Put this in microwave for 10 mins.
4.Remove from oven and mash them little. Transfer this to a blender and make into a smooth puree.
5.Pour this into a dry airtight container and store in fridge.
6.To make juice, take a glass and add few icecubes in them.
7.Now add small amount of apple sauce and fill it with water. Enjoy cold.

<!-- pine apple -->

INGREDIENTS FOR PINEAPPLE JUICE
Pineapple - 1 large peeled and cut into chunks,
Simple Syrup / Sugar as needed,
Lemon Juice as needed,
Icecubes as needed,
Sugar - ½ cup,
Water - ½ cup,
Pin
<!-- process -->
1.Start by making simple syrup, take sugar and water in a sauce pan.
2.Heat till it is melted, now bring it to a boil and boil it for 5 mins.
3.Remove it to a bowl and cool it down. Pour into clean glass and store in fridge for many many years
4.Take pineapple in a blender and puree till smooth.
5.Pour this in a strainer and press as much juice as possible.
6.Now add in sugar or simple syrup and lemon juice.
7.Add in icecubes.
8.Mix well. Serve cold.

<!-- pomegranate  -->
INGREDIENTS FOR FRESH POMEGRANATE JUICE
Pomegranate - 2 large,
Sugar / Honey - 1 tbsp or to taste,
Lemon Juice - 1 tsp or to taste
<!-- process -->
1.Remove the seeds from pomegranate by bashing the top.
2.Take them in a blender, and pulse it few time to crush them
3.Strain them.
4.Add in sugar and lemon juice to taste.
5.Serve.


<!-- punjab -->
<!-- dal tadka -->

Yellow Split Moong Dal / Pasi Paruppu - ½ cup,
Ginger - 1 tblspn finely chopped,
Green Chillies - 2 chopped,
Tomatoes - 1 medium size chopped finely,
Turmeric Powder / Manjal Podi - 1 tsp,
Salt to taste,
Water - 2 cups,
Coriander Leaves a handful finely chopped,
Ghee - 2 tblspn,
Cumin Seeds / Jeerakam - 1 tsp,
Asafoetida / Hing / Kaya Podi - ¼ tsp,
Onion - 1 medium size chopped finely,
Garlic - 3 fat cloves chopped finely,
Chilli Powder - ½ tsp

<!-- process -->
HOW TO MAKE RECIPE / DAL TADKA RECIPE
1.Wash moong dal well. 
2.Add it to a pot, cover with water. 
3.Add in ginger, tomatoes, turmeric green chillies and mix well.
4.Bring this to a boil, cover with a lid and simmer till the dal is cooked.
5.Now add in salt and mix well.
6.Heat ghee in a pan, add in cumin seeds, onions and garlic. Saute till golden.
7.Add in asafoetida and mix well.
8.Add in chilli powder and mix well.
9.Pour this into the dal and mix well.
10.Add in coriander leaves and mix well.
11.Serve hot.

1.Add the three saags, salt and water into pressure cooker & cook over low heat for 1 1/2 hours.
2.Squeeze out saag and keep saag water aside. Mash saag in the cooker until coarsely ground, and add makki atta and stir.
3.Put back saag water and a little fresh water & boil over slow fire.
4.Add green chillies & ginger & cook till saag gets thick.
5.For tadka, add chopped onions, ginger, garlic, red pepper powder; garam masala, dhania & saute until onions are light brown.
6.Mix into saag & garnish with julienne of ginger fried in ghee.To prepare Makki ki Roti.
7.Knead the makki atta until it becomes a ball, add atta to dry it & knead.
8.Heat the tava and add a little ghee so that it does not stick.
9.Make round shapes of makki roti on chakla & carefully transfer to the tava.
10.Cook with ghee till golden brown.
11.Serve with hot sarson da saag and gur and white butter.




